please welcome plato co-founder and ceo
kwang huang
change.org cto elaine joe and notion
head of engineering michael manapat
[Applause]
good morning everyone thank you for uh
being here hola
toros
um with erp right so um
my name is quang i'm a co-founder and
ceo of plato and
as i've been talking to many
engineering leaders
the
the world is scary out there
it is uh it is scary um we have so many
so many uh different stories of
engineering leaders that are just
having a really hard time to hire
engineers
and more importantly to retain those
it costs a lot of money to actually
retain the engineers
one-third of new hires usually leaves
after 6 months
18 months is actually the average dinner
for an engineer in silicon valley so 18
months so just by the time you hire them
they actually already left so that's a
lot of
figures that are pretty scary out there
but the more i talk with engineering
leaders the more i get some really
interesting advice and today i'm very
very happy and honored to
have two of the best engineering leaders
i know
they have
very interesting stories and very
interesting tips to share to all of you
um
michael
elaine do you want to introduce yourself
really quick
sure i'm michael i'm the head of
engineering at notion and for those of
you aren't familiar with that notion is
an on-one tool for tasks docs wikis
things like that
but beyond just those use cases notion
wants to be a platform for building
software tools in general so you can
imagine most sas products are built out
of the same kind of primitives an editor
databases workflows automations to kind
of build that platform so individuals
companies developers can all customize
our software tools on notion
so i've been there for about two years
we've grown from around 40 people to
around 300 over those two years around
10 engineers 125. i was at stripe for
about six years before notion where i
ran the machine learning practice
hi my name is elaine joe i'm the cto at
change.org i
hope that you have heard about change
and all
have the users of change either signing
out petitions or contributing or
creating petitions change.org is the
world's largest petition platform for
people to make changes they want to see
we have over 400 million users around
the globe in 196 countries or regions
so my role is manage the product and
engineering teams especially in
engineering we have over about 70 people
we are completely owned by a non-profit
so we have a very different approach and
also its unique challenges
compared to many other large big tech
companies
what is fascinating when i
talk to the two of you is
you have such a different company in
terms of
you're an ngo
you are super high growth classic and
traditional startup
and the lever you have to actually
retain and engage the engineers are very
different and so that was fascinating
and hopefully we're going to get to all
of this together so the more i talk to
engineering leaders the more
i see retention as a journey
a journey of the engineer
it's like a product when you try to
retain your users you have to retain
them from day one from even before they
join your product or your platform it's
the same thing for engineers you have to
think about how you retain them even
before they join your your company which
is interesting and then when they join
your company and then even after when
you actually grow them and develop them
so we're going to go through this
journey together
so the journey of an engineer and what
you can do at every stage of this
journey to actually retain your
engineers so let's talk about event
before they join your company so the
hiring process so this is something that
actually you can start to think about
retaining your engineer even before they
join your company which is interesting
um so even before the interview process
tell me a bit more about
how the interviewing process and how do
you scan for people who are going to
stay in the long run um anyone wants to
start
i can i can jump in first um for us you
know as you can imagine a company like
change.org is extremely mission oriented
so we put a lot of focus on
highlighting our mission the purpose the
user impact the impact to the world in
our recruiting process from job
descriptions to the first contact from a
recruiter to candidates and then
throughout the entire interview process
and onboarding
so we put a lot of focus then we only
want to attract
people who agree with our mission
obviously and a passion of outcome to
make change
the world through technology so that's
our main focus
but everyone tell everyone to tell you
that they believe in the mission right
so how do you do really to
identify those who really believe in
your mission so we have some advantage
as being a petition platform we have
hundreds and thousands active petitions
running on our platform in any given day
and we many of those petitions or
campaigns reach success in any given day
so we can make big
you know campaigns and make it to new
york times washington post uh various
you know meeting outlets and we always
highlight that so in every one of those
contacts you know connections with the
candidates will highlight those stories
and sometimes we also switch to smaller
petitions in the local basis because the
local petitions
you know that's what related to the
candidate easy to connect to them so if
we know a particular country or region a
location the candidates from will also
highlight those petitions so that's
really helpful you can see what
technology can actually make the impact
by the time they talk to engineers or
talk to me
we would definitely kind of put more
focus on how do we utilize technology
into our platform whether or not the ai
infrastructure or just skill scalability
to really highlight what engineering can
contribute to the mission
okay michael how do you do to actually
screen those engineers that are real
online and those who are going to stay
yeah so there are three things we
interview for specifically in the hiring
process it was like elaine
we start with what you might call a
mission or alignment check so as i
mentioned earlier notion is very focused
on
being something that allows tool
builders to customize their own tools
and it's something we discuss with
candidates at the beginning of the
process
it's easy to check for this people who
like tool building as engineers will
have done things like say worked on
compilers or can talk about tools
they've built notions in a lucky place
where most engineers who join notion
have personally used it as their own
tool so that's an easy way to check how
these people know what we're trying to
do if we're looking for i think the
second thing we check for is just a
desire to build product and not just
implement technology
so we have an interview question which
is very ambiguous it's how you roughly
designed this product what are all the
design choices you would make what are
the underlying technical choices you
would make to see how people deal with
product ambiguity and the last thing we
do at the end of the process is we have
a what we call a craft and values
interview to either i or our ceo will
meet with every engineer and just talk
to them about
notions values things like our emphasis
on rigor or on moving quickly and look
for examples in people's past to see oh
do they behave or they live up to the
values that we have in mind for the
company that way there's no divergence
in the future if you know between our
values and those are the people who join
so mission alignment product sense and
crafting values are three things we look
for in the interview process so mission
alignment is
something that you share so what's the
mission for example notion uh the
mission of notion is to
make filmmaking ubiquitous
okay and you share this with them and
how do you actually
try to understand if they're really
aligned with with this are you just
having a conversation is it a take-home
assignment or project they have to do or
something
yeah so it's not a take-home assignment
it's uh it definitely is more of a
feeling or a vibe like i mentioned
earlier when you're talking to someone
about no transmission is to be a
platform that allows tool makers to
customize your craft their own tools
people will often be able to say oh yes
i've used notion myself
to build this tool say my recipe ebook
or something like that or they'll have
some comment about how when they write a
previous job they were working on a lot
of developer facing tools so it's pretty
easy to grok or to glean from these
conversations you know is this someone
who cares about enabling others to build
their tools or is it just someone who is
looking for another software job so if
they didn't use notion it's a deal
breaker
it's not a i wouldn't say it's a blocker
but like i mentioned earlier i would say
90 of people who end up joining notion
engineering used notion in their
personal life or in a previous job we've
had an engineering engineering manager
join a few days ago who had used notion
for three or four years in his past job
so like
most people who join are very familiar
with the tool ninety percent of people
you hire already used notion before or
not actively using imaging before yeah
uh do you have ninety percent of people
who did a petition before
i would think so but i don't don't quote
me on it i don't know the actual count
yeah
so most of people also who interviewed
change.org actually have been using the
product right most people get out of our
emails probably many of you yeah
good okay so let's switch to the next uh
phase so in order to retain your best
engineers it starts before they join to
make sure so um
mission alignment making sure they have
the right threats for example
there are product engineers they have a
desire to build product and also how
they
align with your values um it's uh you
mentioned with the ceo
co-founder
of notion and yourself and or yourself
which is super interesting so every
single hire go to the ceo or yourself
for the entering team at least which is
interesting so i interview every
youtuber candidate at the last stage you
have also some some similar valued uh
alignment yeah sure yeah good so let's
go to the next uh stage so uh let's
continue in that journey um i'm a
developer
i pass the interview i'm using notion
i'm a big fan i'm using change.org now
what do you do to actually reinforce
and making sure that they're going to
stay in the long run it's stuck within
boarding but you also have the whole
process for the first one
one year and hopefully after 18 months
you don't leave so what do you do
the first 18 months
you want to go first so i think
i guess the word of my mind is growth in
three senses so the first is
this is a bit trite to say but company
growth revenue
users evaluation
is the single best way to retain
engineers in this market so anything
else that you do is not going to really
help if the company isn't growing if
it's plateaued so we obviously invest a
lot in making sure the product is doing
well
but secondary to those are two things
one is on the growth front you want
engineers to know exactly how their work
impacts the company's growth so as an
example notions right now working on
improving our offerings for enterprise
users you know a thousand two thousand
five thousand person companies and
throughout the engineering org the work
that people are doing clearly addresses
or ladders up to that so we have people
working on search to improve search in
large installations we have people
working on permissions to say make a
permissions model that's more granular
for enterprises so those engineering
teams can see very directly how their
work impacts our goal of moving up
market as it were so it's very important
that engineers can see oh yes i am
helping to move revenue numbers or
achieve product goals directly i was at
google for a few years before stripe and
my work was you know light years from
google's core business and there was no
way that i was actually driving revenue
there i noticed very important for us to
have engineers who are really driving
company goals just the second thing on
growth is
it's impressive to me in contrast my
time at stripe to my time of notion
where you know eight years ago or ten
years ago
we were just doing work at stripe heads
down
uh not really focused on personal growth
as much i find engineers today
are a lot more conscious and
deliberate and thoughtful about their
careers so even when notion of having 20
engineers there was a desire for there
to be a career ladder and level so
people could see how they were growing
so we actually just introduced these uh
a few weeks ago
but i think
giving people a sense of tangible
progress how they're growing what their
future the company looks like that's
really important for retention in a way
that it wasn't in my mind eight years
ago or so
so you said three types of growth the
growth of the company the growth of the
individual and
what was the third type of growth
uh so it was growth of the company in
terms of revenue and users there was how
engineers directly derived that growth
from their work and then individual
career growth
okay interesting
so
in order to
retain your engineers you have to
make them realize they
they're growing to help the company grow
and they are growing themselves thanks
to care development so let's talk about
care development four minutes before um
i asked elaine what she can what she's
doing also at the same journey stage of
the journey
career development is something you
introduced only a few weeks ago so it's
super fresh tell us a bit more about
this process really quick maybe some of
uh a
head of engineering or ceo here wants to
do something similar
yeah so even a year and a half a year
ago on engagement surveys probably the
single thing that people wanted the most
was a sense of career progression or
knowing what was required of them and
their role what expectations were and so
forth so
even late 2020 we knew that there was a
desire in the engineering core to have
some kind of formal leveling a ladder
system so about half a year ago we began
working on that in the engineering
management group i had two of our senior
engineering managers begin drafting
just what do each of the seven levels
correspond to what are the expectations
or requirements of each of those
that process of that initial drafting
took maybe two or three months and then
the rounds of iteration with the rest of
the engineering managers earlier this
year we took a group of select ics had
them review the latter and then as part
of our spring performance review cycle
we actually officially got out the
ladder had people do peer reviews we had
a calibration and we did level glove
delivery a week a week or two ago so it
was a pretty long process primarily
because drafting
ladders and making sure
they encapsulate both or industry-wide
norms but also capture the unique values
of your company but that just takes a
while to do four months it was the total
process yeah four months and you did it
before at stripe correct yes i also went
through the lettering process that's
right okay and you saw it at google too
uh when i was at google ladders already
already existed so
yeah i was there for the rollout but
let's try that notion
let's talk about uh what you are doing
at change.org to actually have um the
engineers really focus on the on the
mission and how to reinforce that over
time and how you develop your engineers
sure
i should say that in a change is
slightly different it's obviously we
grow but it's not like high growth
like a notion
but i cannot stress the importance of
growth right if you just know growth you
can't really have in the way you don't
have that much leverage motivate and
continue to motivate a team but we also
put a lot of focus on career development
the individual growth for us with major
growth you know with the user impact at
the company level and revenue and user
impact for career development we put in
we try to be extremely creative utilize
a very limited resource we have as a
non-profit
so we bring into
more focus on individuals
desire what areas of development they
want to
what can we
use if we
help that individual to growth what can
that person contributed companies make
the match so we have different kind of
development needs for example we do
coaching
those more for more senior
doctors or senior managers with specific
needs we identify external coach in a
short term period that have very
targeted areas of focus we have
mentorship we also use plato as well and
those are more target mid-level managers
senior ics who want to develop
leadership skills and we're also putting
together right now we're actually you
know rolling out internal engineering
mentorship program to utilize maximize
our
own staffs and you know this experience
and expertise and then match with
more junior younger uh uh
engineers to create this
six month or nine month long mentorship
program that would be a very tailored
and personalized growth and then we also
have a lot of training programs user
training program we do the train the
trainer meaning we send
a small number of individuals whether
it's product manager engineers or
engineer managers to really well created
online training courses or in-person
trainings and then they come back in the
share and those training could
spread into from security to engineering
engineer management to all the way to
product and design as well it's
incredible so we're limited if we do all
of this and we have to
you know
we
it's a pretty challenge market for us to
compete and as a non-profit we don't
have these potential stock options you
know in the silicon valley everybody
expecting stock options equities we
don't have that in our package right so
we have to add on to other things to uh
attract people so create what i'm trying
to say is beyond the growth we have to
really work on engagement with our staff
it's fascinating you are an ngo so
obviously you don't have stocks
and it's not something that compounds
and get a lot of value over time for
employees so you can't use that to
retain your engineers obviously you can
but we all can use growth of individuals
growth of employees thanks to levels so
you can see a progression in your career
or
growth thanks to coaching
external mentorship with platform like
plato for example or internal mentorship
or even trainings all the things that
you're doing
which is pretty incredible there's
definitely a culture of high growth of
individuals that change their dog yeah
we try very hard to feel out in the
company-wide the growth mindset right i
mean there's plenty of research said
about
happiness come from you know mindfulness
and curiosity right curiosity drive you
know require growth mindset and that's
very important and the other thing the
last thing people want is working for
purpose
so that's the mission focus for us you
got to work in all
of this area to
deepen the engagement of your staff yeah
there is a
topic we hear all the time
in our mentorship platform is about
if the levels uh should be public or
private if we should have the open
salaries or not within the company i
know you have a different point of view
on this can you tell
the crowd what like what you think about
about this
well so i can i can start so i was at
google where levels are public there's
actually a single webpage at google i
don't know 10 years ago now but i'm
gonna go slash and staff and see the
level of every single person of the
company
stripe and notion both have private
levels so the level is known to
individuals but
not to the wider population uh it's not
especially publicized and i think i
prefer that for two reasons you know one
if you make levels public it's a trap or
decision so you can't walk it back ever
end up being secondary consequences you
don't like but second we want the focus
in the workplace to be on the content of
the work if you're having a discussion
about a tech spec or a product review
document or a product requirements
talking you know let the discussion
stand on the merits of the discussion
and how about like we want people to
fixate on oh this person is debating
with me and she is at a higher level
than i am so perhaps i'll just be quiet
or see the argument too quickly so we're
definitely worried about these types of
effects if people are too aware of
levels
there's obviously a counter argument
where people want to be able to
publicize their career growth and their
progression
so uh then pass off to lane for the
opposite view yeah so i think this is a
highly debated
topic
we're more lean toward uh keep
transparency is important to us so we
have company-wise standardized levels
meaning every department we actually
have entire company levels and through
entire you know
uh
coverage throughout the entire
company so
the levels and the requirements for
each levels are public to other staff
and employees
um salary ban is public and we actually
list our salaries in the job posting so
we actually always lean toward
transparency we do have the title that
match the
levels so effectively um the level is
more or less public
um there might be a few variations but
yeah we definitely into it so
transparency is it helping redemption or
not
i think
transparency help
uh engagement yeah because we put a lot
of focus on diversity inclusion and
equity right equitable
you know require transparency and try to
make sure that
uh non-dominate groups you know staff
from non-democratic backgrounds gathered
equal treatment and rewards so that is
important for us you know it's a very
different approach but they're all
trying to work in a similar goal though
you agree
i think it's
both systems can work with you you know
uh on the right way i will say you know
a notion you don't ask people what their
levels were at the previous employers
when we interview them so we try to test
purely on the merits you know when i was
interviewing for the role of notion no
one ever asked me for a resume or
uh my level at stripe for example so i
don't think that levels are actually as
important
in terms of career portability or growth
as people might think
um
i we also running out of time so
let me
just recap a little bit throughout this
journey
really quick so
in order to retain your engineer
so
we need to focus on retaining your
engineers from day one so even before we
hire them so how do we do to actually
interview on a mission alignment on
values on type of engineers that you
want
how much product oriented they are etc
and the second thing is really
throughout this journey how you
actually empower them to actually be
better and better in the wholes so we
discussed a lot about coaching about
mentorship about training but also about
empowering them on what um
what they are doing is actually helping
on the growth of the company for example
you mentioned the
enterprise features and
people don't want to leave if they are
going to be aligned with the mission and
for you it's really about
you two is about the mission you too is
about the growth
of the individuals and for you it's
mainly about the growth of the company
and the eventually the growth
of the stocks
so throughout this journey
there is not one thing
to do it's multiple things at every
stage of their journey so this those are
the main takeaways thank you so much
thank you
[Music]
you